# GA-Unity
A Geometric Algebra package for Unity!

The paper accompanying this package received the **Best Paper & Presentation Award** and the 
**Best Application Award** at the [CGI 2024, ENGAGE Workshop](https://www.cgs-network.org/cgi24/). 
You may read the preprint of the paper [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11560).

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/papagiannakis/GA-Unity
   ```
2. Navigate to the `GA_Unity/unity-project` directory inside the cloned repository.
3. Open Unity Hub and add the project. Make sure you use Unity version 2022.3 or above.
4. Open the `SampleScene.unity` from the Scenes folder to start.

## Project File Structure
```
unity-project/
├── ProjectSettings/
├── Packages/
├── Assets/
│   ├── Scripts/
│   │   ├── R410Pool.cs
│   │   ├── R410_Helper.cs
│   │   ├── MultiVectorLerp.cs
│   ├── Scenes/
│   │   ├── SampleScene.unity
│   ├── Materials/
```

## Scripts Description

- **R410.cs**: Originally generated by Ganja.js, contains basic multivector class
for CGA, along with basic methods such as scalar multiplication, conjugate,
and geometric/inner/outer product. Also includes basic functions to extract
transformation information from translators, rotors and dilators, as well as
perform linear multivector interpolation.
- **R410_Helper.cs**: Used to increase performance by exposing basis elements
outside R410, as a single reference object. Contains functions that constructs
commonly used multivectors such as translators, rotors and dilations as well
as objects such as points or spheres.
- **R410_pool.cs**: Creates a single reference object that is used to allocate an
extensible pool of multivectors that are used throughout the interpolation
phase. Using multivectors from the pool, and returning them back once no
longer needed, allows avoiding dynamic allocation of memory and increases
performance.

## Citation

If you are using the GA-Unity, please cite:

```
@article{GAUnity, 
 title={GA-Unity: A Production-Ready Unity Package for Seamless Integration of Geometric Algebra in Networked Collaborative Applications}, 
 url={http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11560}, 
 DOI={10.48550/arXiv.2406.11560},  
 note={arXiv:2406.11560 [cs]}, 
 number={arXiv:2406.11560}, 
 publisher={arXiv}, 
 author={Kamarianakis, Manos and Lydatakis, Nick and Papagiannakis, George}, 
 year={2024}, 
 month=jun 
 }
```
